Also known as the [[Sin Offering]] or 
as [[Michael Heiser]] puts it in his [[Naked Bible Podcast on Leviticus]] - Decontamination Offering:
> letters, Heth, Teth, and Aleph. Okay well, if it comes from that verb, to miss the mark, to sin, to offend, well, surely the offering has something to do with moral offense. No it doesn't because a lot of your preachers and even some of your commentators, at least the ones that are sort of oriented to the English Bible, will miss the fact that the noun, chatat here doubles the middle consonants. You say, well, what are you talking about? I suggest you have to know a little Hebrew to understand this. For those of you who have had some Hebrew, the middle consonant has a little dot in it. It’s doubled. It’s Keth, Teth, Teth, Aleph and then the ending, chatat, the T ending. You say, well, who cares. It’s like spelling trivia. It's actually important because what the doubled consonant tells us is that the noun translated “sin” offering is not just formed merely from this verb that means to miss the mark. It's formed from a specific form of that verb. One form in Hebrew grammar terminology it's a stem. It’s formed the noun chatat, sin offering, is formed from the PL stem of this verb llama, one that doubles the stem constant. That's significant because in the PL stem and stems, they’re not tenses. You might be thinking that’s like tenses in Hebrew. It's not, it’s something different.

> But it has to do with meanings and patterns, things that happen to Hebrew verbs as they are used in writing or speaking. The PL stem of this verb means not to miss the mark. It doesn't mean to offend. What it means is to cleanse. It means to purify. I think a nice way of putting is it means to decontaminate. And so if you recognize because you know a little Hebrew that chatat is formed on the basis of the PL stem of the root verb, then you will know that sin offering is not a good translation of chatat. The better translation would be purification offering or I would even suggest decontamination offering. That captures the point of what is happening and it's something that is exegetically true. It’s exegetically verifiable so the “sin” offering, I would say, hey, if you’re taking notes, if you’re putting notes in the margin your Bible, I’m not saying cross out words in your Bible but you might put above the word sin offering, if you can, decontamination offering because that's the point. It's the point of the verb in the PL stem, and since the noun here is formed from that stem verb, that's what it means, and that's why the blood is applied to the sanctuary and to sacred objects. It is shielding them. It is protecting them from infection. It is ensurin