Status: #active 
### Justification - I need to analyze this section (from user Maddog#2657)

The word for justify has different meanings in greek and in the Bible. It can mean to declare righteous, like how Paul uses it, and to show or prove righteous like how James uses it. For instance Jesus says wisdom is justified by all her children. He doesn't mean declared righteous in God's sight, but rather that wisdom is vindicated as real wisdom by its fruits. Similarly James in context is talking about how we know who a true Christian is versus false Christians. James 2:13-17. Notice how James begins this discourse. He asks if someone claims to have faith but has no works can that faith save him? The answer is no. No faith that is alone saves, not because it must have works added to it, but because true faith will always result in works. That is why Calvin said we are saved by faith alone, but not by a faith that is alone. Look at how James continues. He uses an example of someone who sees another who is hungry and turns him away saying "keep warm and be filled" but doesn't help them in any way. What good does that do? Nothing, those are empty words. The lack of action shows that the commitment to help the person wasn't ever real to begin with. He draws this as an analogy to prove that "faith without works is dead." This doesn't mean that faith with no works isn't enough, but that faith without works isn't really true faith at all. It is like the empty words of the man who claims charity but does nothing to help the poor and hungry. James 2:18-19. He continues by saying that we prove our faith by our deeds. Not that we add deeds to faith as if faith isn't enough, but that deeds are the proof and immediate, necessary, and inevitable outworking of true faith. We are saved by faith apart from works, but not by a faith that is apart from works. He contrasts this with the false faith of demons that is mere intellectual assent. He's saying we need more than head knowledge but personal trust which always results in works. 

It is in this context James says the thing about faith alone. This is concerning a discourse about Abraham, the very person Paul uses to illustrate sola fide. James is talking about Genesis 24, where Abraham brings Isaac to the altar and says that "justifies" him. Paul, however is talking about Genesis 15 where Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. So they aren't talking about the same thing when they say "justified" (also apparent in that if they were we would have blatant contradiction). When James says Abraham was justified by works, he's not talking about Abraham's justification before God as in his being declared righteous and saved, because, according to Paul, that _already happened._ James 2:20-24. Rather he is talking about that fact being "fulfilled" and Abraham's faith "completed" and Abraham, by works, "justified." What does this mean? Again the words for justified can mean "proven righteous" or "vindicated as good and true." From the context of this passage as a whole and Paul's writings where he adamantly denies we are justified by works, its clear that's James's meaning, namely that Abraham was proven righteous in the sight of men. His faith was _authenticated_ by works. What had already happened when Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness, was proven to have been genuine by his works.

https://biblehub.com/greek/1344.htm


### Church Father's support
1. Clement of Rome